one of my first jobs out of college was
managing the ad account for a National
Fitness chain here in the US and we had
16 Google ad accounts cuz we're
advertising in 16 different States and
within each account we had 50 to 100
active campaigns at any given time so
learning how to use the Google ads
editor I realize really quickly is the
difference between success and failure
in certain roles so if you're watching
this and you want to learn how to use
the Google ads Editor to bulk upload
campaigns ads keywords and leverage it
you are in the right place if you're
wondering why I listen to me uh my team
runs the ads for companies like active
campaign mix panel net spy Checker to
name a few we manage Global Brands seven
figureure ad budgets and what I'm going
to walk you through is the exact same
process on how to use the ads editor
that I teach my internal team so I
really focus on the 8020 and I've also
set up a campaign import template that
we use in our agency that you can also
get access to in the description box
down below so let's get started first
step is you're going to want to actually
download the Google ads editor I'm not
going to go through that because it's
super basic and I'm assuming you've
already done that but if you haven't go
ahead and download the Google ads editor
once you've done that you're going to
come here into the accounts manager Tab
and what you want to do is you want to
download your Google ad account if
you're an agency watching this you can
also download your MCC account and then
download all of your client child
accounts underneath so once you've
downloaded your account you're going to
come here and you're going to click
download to download all of the most
recent activity so after clicking add
and then adding your account click
download click all campaigns and then
just make sure you download every single
change in the Google ads editor so the
cool thing about the Google ads editor
is it allows you to make changes offline
now that I know that might not seem like
a big deal but when you're making a lot
of changes and then God forbid your
Wi-Fi cuts out or for some reason you're
making changes on an airplane at 35,000
ft in the air like I have done in the
past when I was uh traveling this is
where the tool can be really powerful
that it can work offline especially when
you buy the Wi-Fi package and it doesn't
work like it should be uh this is where
you're going to be thankful that the
Google ads editor allows you to make
these changes offline so in terms of
getting familiar with the Google ads
editor let's walk through the interface
really quickly here first things first
this will save you a load of trouble
down the line learn this the hard way is
number one make sure you're in the right
account by looking here on the top of
the screen you can see which account
you're actually making changes in I
can't tell you the amount of times that
I've made changes and I was about to
bulk upload and and publish a bunch of
changes and then I realized I was
actually working in the wrong account
it's super easy to do so make sure that
doesn't happen to you by always
referencing here to the top of the page
to make sure you're actually in the
right account now the Google ads editor
follows the exact same account structure
that your Google ad account follows so
the same hierarchy meaning we start at
the account level then we go to the
campaign level then the ad groups then
the keywords and then the ads so for
example if you look here on the left
this is the account that you're in right
now so in this case Google ads tutorials
if I expand this I see campaign camps if
I expand the campaign then underneath
the campaign I see ad groups if I click
into an ad group and I look down here I
can see there's keywords and then if I
scroll even further down I can see there
are ads so it follows the exact same
structure now in terms of getting
familiar with the Google ads editor and
seeing what you need to see and making
your life more pleasant in here the
thing that you're going to really want
to make sure you take note of is the
ability to leverage filters filters are
going to save you a lot of headache
navigating the editor because here you
can see everything every single item and
scope within your Google ad account in
one place which can be quite
overwhelming so the first filter I
recommend that you Leverage is you
leverage this filter here called hide
empty types what this is going to do is
it's going to only show me the things
that have an Associated value so for
example right now you see I have a lot
of different items being displayed to me
with a count of zero once I switch on
this filter hide empty types you can see
it automatically just cleaned up all of
the things that I don't need to see
right now and now I can only see the
things that actually have an Associated
value so this is going to really help
clean up your view the second filter I
recommend that you Leverage is if you
come here to the top switch these
filters based on the campaign types that
you're trying to create or optimize or
modify or whatever your your goal is
inside the editor because if you have
large scale accounts like for example
for our clients you know we're running
Global Brands uh running in multiple
regions across multiple campaign types
multiple channels this one filter can
save a lot of time and headache so I
highly recommend it and then the next
thing I highly recommend that you do as
well is when you're in the Google ads
editor you Leverage The search filter
here so if you want to just search down
and filter by a specific region you can
search that Region's abbreviation your
campaign naming convention so in this
case USA and I only see my USA campaigns
another really helpful tidbit okay so
now that you're familiar with the Google
ads editor let's walk through the
mechanics of actually uploading your
first campaign because you're going to
learn a lot from that experience and I
promise you it's going to be confusing
at first but it's like anything in life
it's a little confusing at first you try
practice becomes easy so what you need
to do step number one is you need a
campaign import template this arguably
the hardest part of the whole process
and I've got you covered so I'm going to
give you access to our Google ads editor
campaign import template that we use in
our agency with the brands that I spoke
about with these seven figureure global
Brands uh it's the exact same one that
we use internally and you can get access
to this for free no op required just go
to the article in the description box of
this video and you can find it in that
article underneath the campaign import
step so once you have your campaign
import template what you're going to
want to do is you're want to actually
fill it out which is what we're going to
do here so for the sake of time and not
boring you to death I already filled
this out with some example values I'll
walk you through it but you're going to
want to pause this video if you're
following along grab grab a copy of the
template and actually go through the
work of filling it out so this template
just to quickly walk you through it
starting from the left we have campaign
information as you continue through it
you have ad group information keyword
information and then you have all of
your ad copy information so you can see
here headlines if I keep scrolling
through headline positions if I keep
scrolling through I've got all the
headlines all the descriptions path One
path two and final URL so you've got
everything you need to bulk import every
different facet of your campaign right
here in this template so moving through
it here we've got here the campaign this
is where we're going to start with
what's the campaign in which we want to
make these changes now when you're
making changes in a spreadsheet format
you have to understand that each row is
unique meaning if I wanted to add
multiple ad groups to this one campaign
I need to create multiple rows
reflecting the different ad groups that
I want to add to the associated one
campaign so in this case I've got a
non-brand campaign following our naming
conventions as an example if you don't
have a good naming convention you can
you can leverage this one as a starting
point but basically it's region Campaign
theme campaign Network language match
type device and you can see here it's
North America non-brand search English
exact all devices and I've got in here
an ad group of software where uh let's
say in this case I want to add multiple
ad groups to the same campaign so what
you can do is you can copy the row paste
it and now I'm going to switch from
software to maybe something like tools
so now I have two ad groups within the
same same one campaign so just remember
you have to make unique rows for each
thing the same goes for keywords if you
want multiple keywords within the same
ad group within the same campaign it
would be a unique row a little confusing
at first but if you're familiar with
sheets Excel it's just something that
you get used to so with that being said
let's go ahead and fill in our campaign
name once you do I recommend that you
leave the campaign status as paused if
not it if you publish your changes
prematurely you can start spending money
by accident so just leave it paused add
group what are the ad groups that you
want within your campaign so in this
case I've got three campaigns one ad
group per campaign so I've got a North
America campaign a Mia and APAC campaign
next is your keyword what's the keyword
Within These ad groups uh so in this
case CRM software my software ad group
customer relationship management
software in this one and then serum
cloud in this one next up is your
Criterion type this is called our match
type so I've got these dropdowns here
for you to just make it super easy so
choose if it's an exact match phase
match broad match whatever match type
you're using so in this case I'm using
exact match one really important note
here is do not modify the column headers
these column headers are mapped to the
Google ads editor import process so for
example naturally you would call this
match types and not Criterion type but
Google ads editor reads based on
Criterion type not match type so it
would cause an issue in the upload
process so just don't touch the headers
next up is your bid strategy type what
bid strategy do you want to use for your
campaign I've got them all all listed
here for you just for easy reference so
manual CBC Max clicks Target row as
Target CPA so on and so forth Just
choose the right one with this drop down
field once you've done that next up is
we've got some tracking templates so if
you're using tracking templates for your
campaigns and if you're not highly
recommend it it's very great because you
can push Dynamic value track parameters
to push Dynamic information based on for
example keyword what keyword drove the
click what device um what creative ID
and and so on and so forth
so in this case I've got a standard
tracking template here with UTM seource
Google medium CPC UTM term is keyword
UTM campaign is using a custom parameter
of campaign name where we can now push
in the campaign name value if you're not
using tracking templates and you're just
applying your UTM directly in the ad
level you can just delete these columns
and it'll be totally fine this is
additional information add type is
responsive search ad and then here is
where we're going to actually fill in
our ad copy information so I've got here
headline one and then a headline one
position so if you did want to pin your
your headlines you can so for example
headline one I've got example one here
as my copy and then I have it pinned to
position one let's say you didn't want
to pin your positions for whatever
reason you can just delete the value in
there and then it will not pin that
headline position anymore and we've got
all the different ones here so feel free
to go crazy and pin and Associate your
headlines however you see fit so
headline 1 2 3 4 all the way until 15 so
you got all 15 headline spots here for
you to fill out if you want to use the
maximum amount of headlines available
and then the same thing for description
so you've got your four variations of
descriptions so you can do description
one position one description two
position two if you wanted to pin or
again just delete the value if you
wanted to allow Google to serve however
they see fit and then last but not least
is the path one and path two for your
display URLs and then finally is your
actual final URL of where you're driving
the ad to so that is the campaign import
template go ahead and fill this out and
that is going to be it for step number
one step number two once you have this
all filled out is we're going to want to
actually copy this template and we're
going to bulk import it into the Google
ads editor so in terms of copying the
data you have a few options available I
figured this would be really helpful for
you listening if you're not familiar
with Google Sheets or Excel so first
things first if you select campaign here
and then you select command a on your
Mac or control a I believe on a Windows
it'll just automatic Ally select the
entire table and then you just do
command C or control C if you're on a
Windows and it'll allow you to copy all
of the information really easily another
way you can do it is you can hold
command shift go down and it'll allow
you to bulk select like this and then
you hold command shift and go to the
right and it'll allow you to grab all of
the information like that as well so
however you want to do it but the thing
I don't want you to be doing is I don't
want you to be going like this it's
going to suck especially when you have
you know hundreds of rows uh you got to
level up your your skills here with the
shortcuts all right so now that we have
our data copied we're going to open up
the Google ads editor and we're going to
come here in the Google ads editor and
you're going to select on the Google ads
editor your account this is really
important go to the account level and
then in the Google ads editor window
you're going to want to click on account
import and then you're going to import
from text so in my case this is on on a
Mac it's on the on the top maybe on
Windows it's a little bit s similar but
you're going to click account import
paste for from text and then once you've
done that this bulk import option is
going to pop up and then you're just
going to paste your values in so you can
see here I pasted my values in and you
can see it says not importing not
importing not importing this is when you
know you did it wrong so the first thing
you're want to do is you're going to
make sure that you have the right field
names associated with the values so if
you see something like this this is
incorrect and the reason this is
incorrect is because our headers are not
in the right place so when we did the
copy paste we did it incorrectly so what
we're going to want to do is we're going
to want to go back to our spreadsheet
here and we're going to make sure that
we select the right values so in this
case I'm going to select all of my
column headers and then I'm going to
come down and grab all my values I'm
going to copy it I'm going to come back
in here I'm going to clear this and I'm
going to paste it again and now you can
see it's correct I've got campaign my
Associated campaign names I've got
campaign status my status es add group
my ad group values keywords Criterion
type bid strategy type my tracking
templates my ad type headline headline
positions if I keep scrolling through
you can see my descriptions my
description positions so everything is
mapped accordingly everything looks good
my font URL amazing you're going to want
to make sure you leave your bulk change
action as add or update uh assuming
you're creating something new and then
you're going to click process and that's
it for step number two don't worry about
these empty columns that say not
importing this is just because of the
way I formatted the spreadsheet so if
you really look into the spreadsheet uh
you're going to notice that I'm using
multiple rows or columns for the
campaign field and then the same thing
for a couple of these other ones and
it's just to create better formatting
and spacing so don't worry about the the
not importing empty columns click
process and then once you've done that
you're going to see it added the
campaign so in our case our three
campaigns our three add groups and then
we're going to click finish and review
changes and then now what we're going to
want to do is we're going to review our
import and we're going to want to adjust
our campaign settings so if I come back
here I can see we've got our three
campaigns and you're going to just want
to just take a look through it just make
sure okay is is the right ad group in
here within the ad group do I have my
right ads so in this case I can see I
have my ad copy um are all the values
that I wanted to import actually
imported is kind of the tldr here and as
I'm going through it uh I can see I'm
actually missing something so if I click
on uncheck hide empty types I can see
I'm missing my keywords so if this
happens to you it's common uh especially
when you're doing a bulk import with
literally all of your your values from
scratch so what I'm going to do in this
case is I'm going to keep my changes I'm
going to come back here and I'm going to
just grab my campaign and everything
basically up into the keyword type here
so all of this information that's
missing I'm going to come back and I'm
going to go to import paste text I'm
going to paste my changes and make sure
it's add or update I want to make sure
my ADD group is here my keyword is here
my Criterion type I'm going to click
process and you can see the three
keywords were added so if that does
happen to you that's how you fix it and
I'm going to click finish and review
changes and now let's just double check
it's all here we've got my ad group I've
got my keyword now is my keyword the
right match type it is exact do I have
my ad I'm going to just see clean up my
filters here responsive search ads add
yes does it have my final URL it does
amazing so looks like everything here is
good I'm going to go and keep the
changes now the final step is you're
going to want to go through your
campaign settings and make sure you have
the right campaign settings so that
you're able to uh actually publish this
so you can see here I've got a lot of
Errors so some of these errors are
relevant others not if you ever see this
little little red error like this with
an exclamation point that means you have
to change something something's broken
and it will not work if you try to post
the changes live into your account so in
my case you can see I don't have a
budget associated with these campaigns
so a pro tip is if you hold shift and
you select you go down with your up
arrows or your down arrows you can
select multiple campaigns at the same
time saves tremendous amount of time and
in this case I'm going to bulk select
all three campaigns and I'm going to
associate the same budget so for the
sake of example I'm going to put $50 and
you can see I press enter and now each
one of these campaigns got $50 applied
at the exact same time this is how we do
it right we want to work smart and not
just hard so from here you're going to
want to go through the campaign settings
and just make sure that it makes sense
so first thing I know that's off is I'm
using search and Display Network how I
know that before I even looked at my
campaign settings is just by looking at
the icon here I can see the search and
Display Network icon here that's a no no
I don't want search and display combined
on the search campaigns so I'm going to
want to make sure I adjust that so I'm
going to select each one of my campaigns
here on the right under the campaign
type here under include Display Network
I'm going to click disabled and then now
I just bulk updated all of them so
they're now they're only serving on the
search Network in addition to this you
can go through it and make sure you
apply the the associated things so if I
wanted to choose an ad schedule I can
click edit here and then I can drag what
my ad schedule will be so maybe I wanted
to run ads um actually I'm going to undo
that let's say I wanted to run ads from
9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Monday through
Friday okay apply that now I've got my
ad schedule applied to all my campaigns
if I wanted to do any bid adjustments at
the campaign level maybe I was targeting
a specific device for my campaigns so in
this case I've got all devices for these
campaigns but maybe I wanted to update
them and only target desktop devices so
a way you could do that really easily is
you can select all the campaigns here
and then uh under all three of these
campaigns what you can do is you can
come here and you can go to bit
adjustments and I can do ative 100 bit
adjustment for mobile and tablet and now
I'm only showing on desktop devices as
an example uh so really cool stuff that
you can do in the editor in this case I
don't want to do that so I'm going to
delete it and I'm going to keep
scrolling through just make sure
everything looks good my Loc
and language targeting uh my location
targeting is set to the US this is a
common Google ad trp people fall into
make sure your targeting method is
correct so in this case I want people
who are in or regularly in my targeted
location so I'm going to switch that uh
I'm going to scroll through this isn't
really IR relevant because it's a search
campaign so I can ignore that and then
the last piece here is just going to be
the tracking template so if I wanted to
have a tracking template applied I need
to make sure that I see the tracking
template here applied at the campaign
level along with my custom parameters so
in this case I can see I don't have a
tracking template applied to these
campaigns so if you go back to my my
template here I've got a tracking
template that I could apply if I wanted
to uh for my campaigns so just for the
sake of demonstration I'm actually going
to apply this right here and then I've
got a custom parameter of campaign name
so I'm going to grab that campaign name
parameter and actually to make my life
easier I'm going to just bulk select all
of these
and make sure that it's applied to all
of them and you can see it was already
applied from the from the the import and
uh now I'll just grab my custom
parameter and if I'm losing you guys
right now this this is just minutia like
you know this is uh just making sure
that my my template is working in terms
of my tracking template but if this
isn't relevant to you please feel free
to skip forward from here I'm going to
put my campaign name for this campaign
so it needs to be one unique value per
tracking template so it would be like
this and then this case this one would
be a
Mia and I would drop that in here and
then this last one would be APAC grab
that and I would drop it in here so now
I've got my tracking template set up at
each campaign so it'll automatically
push in the right campaign name for that
specific campaign so really recommend
you look into tracking templates if this
is something you're not familiar with
they're really incredible
uh and I can do a separate video on this
but the long story short is we've got
our campaign settings correct the last
thing is labels if you're using labels
you want to make sure you apply a label
here if not you can leave it blank so
that is it the hard work is over now
what you're going to do is you're going
to click post and you're going to make
sure you post the right items so take a
look here we've got three campaigns
three ad groups keywords Etc if I look
here I see it says one post is one I've
got one responsive search ad that won't
post right now so I need to see what's
going on here so I'm going to select
these campaigns I'm going to go to
responsive search ads I'm going to sort
by the exclamation mark here and I can
see this is the ad that won't post and I
need to understand why won't it post
what's going on here and I can see oh
it's because I'm missing a description
one so most likely in my campaign import
I forgot to fill in the values for one
of the the descriptions by mistake so
here I'm just going to fill it in
description one for the sake of example
Des description to and that's it we have
let's just make sure we resolve the in
the the uh the the
issue okay cool I think we're good and
you can see if you're like what's going
on here what's the problem it says this
headline is the same as another so I
need to differentiate here so headline
one two and three are different and now
you can see the the error is gone so now
we're going to click post and you can
see everything will post correctly our
campaign campaigns our ad groups our
keywords locations and our ads and
that's click will we just click post and
now it'll be live in our Google ad
account that is it for this video I hope
it was helpful again if you want to get
access to our campaign editor template
go ahead and click on the article in the
description box down below and if you're
a B2B marketer watching this and you
want to level up your advertising skill
set with free courses taught by some of
the world's best practitioners then sign
up for our free courses at at
conversion.com and I will see you in the
next video take care